Okay I feel like we've had a lot of discussing and not a lot of actual creating so let's do a bunch
of creating in this video.
I'm gonna go ahead and turn my sketch into my environment.
I really want to stress at this point don't be precious about things don't have things perfect.
We need to be working fast and loose you need to be out to move things around.
We don't know how far we should have our player run we don't know spacing all of these things we're
gonna work out as we go.
So for now it is be fast and loose with how you create things and have fun.
Have a good time doing it.
I'm going to record myself creating this I'm going to speed it up and commentate over the top of it
so you can see my process as I go.
If there's anything I go through too quickly if you have questions How did you do that then throw a
question in the discussions I've got the link as always against his lecture the challenge I've got for
you is to craft your own environment alter your terrain place your assets where you want them and to
add your enemies you can do that now as I'm doing mine or you can wait until I've done mine and then
go ahead and do yours.
Either way please jump in and create your environment and a quick note if you don't want to create this
yourself.
I've given you a link against this lecture which has an asset pack that you can bring into your project
that is for the prefab environment so you might need to delete your existing environment game object
but you can bring in my new environment game object which will have my terrain and trees and houses
from the end of this section.
So you see where it's going to end up but that's only if you don't want to go ahead and create it yourself
in the next video we're gonna be talking a little bit more about our enemies and tuning our enemies.
For now we're placing them so over to the actual creation process and as I mentioned are going to speed
up the video as I go.
So because I want a little bit of a river in my design I need to raise up the bulk of my terrain because
it's all sitting at zero and my train can't go below zero.
That's the lowest that ranking.
Because it's a height map.
So I've selected set height it's about one point five.
I did that by holding shift while I clicked on one point of my terrain that was the height I wanted
to and that set the height.
Now we're smoothing it all out.
You can see my buildings are now underground as I've increased the height.
This will allow me to dig a little trough that I can put my river in in the future.
I'm just generally smoothing it all out here so that I've got plenty of room to rearrange WHAT I WANT
TO DO.
I'M GONNA GRAB THE BUILDINGS move them up so they're not underground and just fiddle around with them
a little bit so they're at the right height.
I can begin to speed up the video even more now so I can fly through it as I fiddle around with the
placement of my buildings.
I could just delete them all and start a game but it's easier to have them in the scene I'm moving my
player to the start point.
Just raising it up and down a little bit.
So play is where I want it to be.
And then just smoothing out my path so I can paint a new path.
This is the whole fast and loose on his paint a path in there.
Maybe goes through the middle of town that way and see how it feels if it's not right.
Then I can just paint over it in green and then repaint it.
This is where I'm thinking maybe my river goes here maybe there.
Yeah looks pretty good.
Towns are often built right next to a river.
Let me make it.
River size probably a little bit too wide.
I might narrow it down later on but it's okay.
Just still does painting with texture before I get in there and create any geometry or any terrain layout
itself in terms of raising or lowering.
I figured the river shouldn't really end in this height of the mountain so I've covered around the back.
Here again to create a nice border for the player.
Say you can't really go over the other side of the river and just smoothing it out here so to tuck around
the corner nicely and then just tidy up a little bit more there.
Now at the start with the players I want to raise the terrain a little bit so that the player can't
see straight through to the village just yet and lower some of these mountains that are in the front
and worried they're going to bump into the camera.
I do a little bit more of that again later on.
Just make a little indent into my river so it feels a little indented and again don't over overwork
this cause we might want to change the entire placement of the river.
I just want to dig it out a little bit so I get a feel for it.
And then just making a bridge where I've set the height and making it the same height as the terrain
around it.
Just painting it brown kind of feels a bit bridge ish if I like the size that bridge later on than I
can get an asset and put it there or build an asset.
If you've got a whole bunch of assets ready to go then you could just drop a bridge in there straight
away.
But who knows maybe I don't want a bridge later on this is all about let's create a moment let's get
out distances worked out let's get our sizes.
Is this enough enemies for this space is a lot of questions that we can answer in this process of creating
a moment before we go on over commit to any massive amount of level creation.
Because creating levels can take a huge amount of time here.
I'm just rearranging my buildings a little bit.
I want to create that block at the front.
Maybe something that represents a little bit of a tavern perhaps that the gods can be standing outside.
I don't think this building really matches the other buildings as kind of concrete.
Plus the wooden stuff over there but just arranging it into the size and shape.
And I want to make a two story kind of maybe this is the tavern over this side.
It would make sense taverns are often next to the river.
You have a little bit of logic in there when you make these things don't have both doors on the same
side and just call like a two story building type thing and then yeah just rearranging that they want
to block the player from being on a run along the edge of the river.
Just add another couple of buildings here just duplicate control D move them around a little bit and
then why not put a fence between the two again to see how it feels.
You can see here rather than just trying to have that fence panel that panel that I had and just keep
it the exact size just gone and scaled it up.
I often do that just drag it out these textures a good because they're just solid textures you can drag
and scale so you can scale things up without it affecting how the texture looks.
Now at this point I realized I better run through my levels see how it's feeling make sure you bake
your navigation beforehand your nav mesh or else it won't work properly.
I'm not digging the camera.
I want to have the camera and see the guy's head submerged there.
Let me out.
Not yet buddy.
So I wouldn't have the camera have a little bit more look off into the distance.
Don't over finish your camera just yet.
We're gonna be doing a bit more awesome stuff in our camera in a few videos time with our camera and
a few videos time sorry.
Just playing around with it here seeing how does it look that reveal down the main street of town.
I quite like it.
I built it deliberately so you can see the hallway down there and it kind of leads the player in that
direction.
I think that's gonna make it more interesting when I have my choice.
One is obviously you've got to go this way and the other is a little bit more sneaky down to the side.
Just seeing what happens if I put a couple of obstacles in the world a little bit of finesse here.
Probably more than I need to at this point but the Street was looking a little bit empty.
I want to see as well how things go when we add more mechanics to make sure that our enemies on bumping
into the crates to see about sizes what's the right size for a little arena here a little battle if
I have it too close then the camera's gonna be bumping into the buildings the play is going to have
trouble getting past the enemies and I have it to open and it feels like the plague does run past the
enemies and not even worry about them.
So I'm playing around with that here I'm just mapping out where I want my patrol path to be I've written
it in kind of scribbled it in yellow and figured hang on a minute I should do it and read as a consistent
language for what enemies are doing so that's just to say I want this guy patrolling up and down here
to get a feel for the distances before we go and implement that might only take five or ten minutes
to hook up our way points and have the enemy running up and down the way points but it took me all of
five seconds just to scribbled on the ground and get a feel for it.
Okay.
Just laying down some more buildings just scale this up to represent a bigger building down that back
end of town to my exit point and tidying up things.
Make that a little bit bigger.
You see there's a lot of fiddling and finessing I do when I'm creating a level.
It's up to you how much of this you want to do.
You don't have to spend tons and tons of time rearranging everything perfectly.
But I figure now enough building fiddling it's time to put in some trees and see how that goes.
I wanted to have a village we kind of feel where there's enough trees.
It feels a little bit you know a little bit lush in a way.
Obviously these trees aren't super lush trees necessarily but I like nature so I tend to put in a lot
of trees and a lot of grass here I accidently have my scales zoomed in too far on my game.
So that's why it was giving a little bit of a weird look there.
But it's time for time to play again to see what's going on.
You can see I'm not happy I've got some collision issues or some navigation issues at the front.
They're just figuring out my reveal.
I think that's a pretty nice reveal over the bridge.
So I put a little see here that to note to denote this is where I'd like to trigger a cinematic.
So when you get to that point we can have the camera fly around a little bit and show some things the
player and then just fixing up this this little hill over here which I was clicking on accidentally
and the nav mesh was getting picked up over there.
I haven't biked the nav mesh.
I forgot to do that so bake it again come back over and now it's not kind of clipping into the player.
Those trees are getting in the way I don't like those they're obscuring the player too much song and
to take care of those and probably the foreground trees.
We need to be pretty careful with just so they're not getting in the way of the player just load have
tree finessing here.
And so the process is at this point put a couple of things down then play it.
Just a quick run through Dari about doing combat and stuff.
But make sure that you are running through.
I'm just putting down where my other patrol path would be for this enemy.
I'm not yet convinced of having just one enemy on the back.
Here is an interesting moment.
You can see I'm putting my question mark for do I have a big boss battle at the end or are stronger
enemy.
I better actually figure out where the exit of this moment is loops around the side there and probably
put another bridge paint this brand to say there's a bridge into town and a bridge out of town.
I think that's kind of interesting.
And then let's get a high level overview of what's going on.
So I still need to I think finesse a little bit.
My camera it's pointing a little bit too far off in the distance.
So it is angle it down a bit.
That's not too bad.
So let's do a final run through our level make sure everything's okay.
Might nature just tidy up these trees if you hold down shift then allows you to delete the trees if
you are just left click then obviously you place trees and you can place a whole bunch of trees by increasing
tree density.
Okay.
This is feeling pretty good just giving a little bit of flavor at the start there.
So now let's do our final run through see how it's feeling okay.
The distances there I'm liking if I go down the goat track that's feeling pretty good through the middle
of town.
Yeah.
It's not too tight it's not too spaced out.
And then at the end banked my nav mesh.
But that would be the end of town and all in all I'm pretty happy with it.
Okay.
So hopefully that was useful watching me go through that process and have me commentate over the top
if it's good.
Let me know if you want more of it than I'll do more of it as I go.
If not then I might skip it or go a lot quicker through the process.
But I was just trying to show you my thought process as I went make sure there's no surprises and it's
over to you now to create your lay out your environment get things ready so that in the next video we
can be putting a little bit more effort into the tuning of our enemies.
OK.
Great work.
And see you again soon.